ED Provider Notes
ED INITIAL CONSULT NOTE
S/b: Person X

Demographics
PATIENT NAME
21 y.o. male
No Known Allergies
Premorbid ADL-I, Comm-Amb

Past Medical/Surgical History

1. Asthma
2. Previously seen at NUH EMD (30/7/18): Noted Dx of autism
- defaultd REACH and psych TCU
3. Chest keloids
4. Myopia, vitreous syneresis

Last admitted in NTFGH in 2019
1. Drug overdose (Paracetamol) 2' Acute stress reaction
- SB Psy 4/1/18:
 > Impression: Acute Stress Reaction to stress of starting school Will require long-term monitoring for mood disorder
 Underlying Autistic traits diagnosed by NUH
 > Suggest:
 1) Safe for discharge under care of mother from Psy point of view
 2) No medications indicated at this time
 3) Reschedule earlier NUH Psy TCU (currently on 29 Jan)
 4) Memo to NUH Psy with details of current admission
 5) Mother may need a memo stating that patient is in hospital, so that she can register at ITE on his behalf - she will request from team if necessary, please provide

Significant chronic meds
Adapalene 0.1% gel (Differin) ON

Subjective
History of Presenting Complaint:
1. Felt faint today at 8.20pm
- was attending a pre-trial taekwondo class at a hard court near his home; was doing squats when he felt his vision darkening; hearing became muffled
- pt slowly walked over to the bench to sit down --> did not fall down or hit his head; this dark vision lasted for a few min; but by the time the SCDF staff came, his vision completely returned
- did not experience headache, chest pain, dizziness or SOB before this darkening of vision occurred
- denies any pain in the rest of his body
- says that he was not in extreme stress --> recently felt a little stressed from school, but not especially increased today
- recently recovered from COVID one week ago --> had 3 days of high fever and myalgia but recovered and only started returning to physical activity today
- denies reduced oral intake or excessive losses (no diarrhea, no vomiting, no polyuria)
- previously never had issues with exercise and physical activity
- no fam hx of cardiac issues or sudden cardiac death

Corroborative hx from mother 81234567
- her friend accompanying patient for the pre-trial class and saw that pt was not feeling well
- he was roughly 20min into the class when he started feeling unwell
- did not see patient LOC or fall down
-no urinary or bowel incontinence or jerking of limbs
- verified no previous history of exertional symptoms of chest pains
- no fam hx cardiac conditions or SCD
- mom asking if could be due to anxiety which patient previously had --> explained that it's possible but pt reported no sudden increase in anxiety recently
- explained that will need to do some blood tests to rule out other causes of his condition
- will keep her updated on the progress

Objective
Vitals
Vital signs:
 28/11/23 21:00 28/11/23 21:06
BP: (S) (!) 98/68 (S) (!) 106/57
Pulse: (S) 75 (S) 78
Resp: 16
Temp: 37 °C
TempSrc: Tympanic
SpO2: 99%

BGM
Results from last 7 days
 Lab Units 28/11/23
21:21
GLUCOSE (POCT) mmol/L 9.2

O/E
GCS 15
Alert and conversant
No facial droop
PEARL 3mm, nil nystagmus, EOM full
Tongue central, moist; no laceration or bleeding seen
Heart S1S2 nil murmurs, regular
Lungs clear, nil creps or reduced air entry
Abdo soft, non-tender
Calves supple, nil edema

Investigations
ECG reviewed: sinus rhythm HR 86, nil acute ST-T changes. Nil delta waves.

Impression
1. Near syncope
- possible precipitants: recently recovered from COVID; stress from attending pre-trial class
- however as symptoms occurred exertion/exercise, concerns of underlying cardiac cause

Plan
Labs: FBC RP trop
KIV admit for futher monitoring and workup

ED Notes
Lunch bento served to patient.

ED Notes
Sandwich and milo served.

ED Update Notes
RV:
Felt dizzy & darkening of vision at abt 20:10 hrs whilst doing squats. No chest pain or palpitations . Recalls being helped to the bench & ambulance arrived.
No recent illness, except for COVID last week. Felt well enough to go to TKD class. No diarrhea.
OE: Comfortable, alert, Ht S1S2, no murmurs or S3.
Lungs clear
No pedal oedema
PEARL, EOM full, no nystagmus
CNv IX, X, XII, VII inatct
No pronator drift or dysmetria
Gait N

ECG at 21:17 hrs sinus 86, no ac changes, QTc 424ms. No old ECGs
CXR - no cardiomeg
Trop at 23:04 hrs 120
ANION GAP mmol/L 14.4

Trop < 3.2

Plan (d/w Dr D)
PO K replacement
Admit gen med to workup exertional syncope TRO cardiogenic cause